Good morning.
So I'm standing between you and lunch,
I believe,
so we'll try and make this either
an opportunity for you to get those
juices going to look forward to
lunch or certainly try and make
this an interesting session for you.
As mentioned,
I'm the Director of Engineering for
Pro Video Applications
that includes Final Cut,
Final Cut Express, Final Cut Pro,
Pro Video Codex,
and some other projects within
our Pro Applications division.
I'm going to be talking today
about the Xsan product and how
it fits into the video workflow.
And although I will be talking from
the perspective of Final Cut Pro,
it actually is very applicable.
It's applicable to anyone in the
applications domain who's dealing
with media in an Xsan environment.
It's also, I think,
you'll find it appropriate for anyone
who's dealing with the creative
professional marketplace in general.
There's a number of different
tools that fall into this category,
and Xsan is an excellent
tool in this space.
But it provides some interesting
challenges as you're dealing with media,
and we'll talk a lot about that today.
Certainly,
folks who are interested in Xsan,
I think, are going to be talking
about the Xsan product.
And folks who are dealing
with site administration,
I think,
will find this interesting as well,
because setting up this environment
is actually the biggest challenge
that we'll be talking about.
So as we get into the talk,
first I want to talk a little bit about,
kind of set the context
around how video editing,
you know, kind of the view of video
editing from the editor's view,
from the kind of creative
professional's view,
and what their expectations are.
And then we're going to get into how
this applies to Xsan environment.
And how shared storage and work
group computing kind of changes
that model and impacts that model
in a pretty significant way.
And then we'll finish up
with a little bit of thinking
about where we go from there.
So first to get into video editing today,
I think one thing to understand in
the marketplace right now is that the
focus is around as much performance
and real-time capability as you can
possibly get out of the hardware.
That's certainly what drives
the market in a big way.
They're looking for the
fastest hardware they can get,
the fastest storage they can get.
They're looking for as
many streams of video,
as many effects,
as much real-time capability as they
can possibly get out of the system.
And that's driven around a number
of different kind of workflows,
both from the kind of media that
people are dealing with and the kind of
people that are working with the media.
So that's everything from the
individual independent production house,
people who are event videographers
who are producing corporate videos,
to the independent filmmakers,
to small work groups of people
who may be working on short-form
commercials or movie trailers.
trailers or doing music videos,
all the way up to broadcast television,
how-to shows on HDTV and movies that you
go to see at your local movie theater.
All of that is expected out of
today's existing tools and hardware.
It's a huge range of expectations,
and it drives a large number
of different kinds of media
that people have to work from.
If you're dealing with film,
you're obviously not working with
film directly in the computer,
but taking it into some
type of offline format.
But many of,
for news gathering and for other things,
they're dealing with DV25,
your standard camcorders, if you will,
all the way up to your news production,
high definition,
uncompressed standard definition for TV,
uncompressed high definition,
as well as other types of
media like audio and stills.
One thing that's really interesting
to consider as you're looking
at the performance issues around
dealing with this media is the
kind of data rates that you're
dealing with for this kind of stuff.
For your conventional DV25 or
your standard mini DV camcorders,
it's in the range of 2.8 to 3.6
megabits per second of information.
And as you go up through the
different types of media from
DVC Pro 50 and DVC Pro HD,
the data rates, of course,
go up appreciably.
When you get to uncompressed,
things get really complicated
because you're dealing with just
monstrous amounts of information.
The good news as compared to
things like the various DV formats
is these are uncompressed.
So the tradeoff there is
computational complexity,
if you will,
having to decompress and recompress that
information as you're dealing with it,
as opposed to moving just
large quantities of bits.
For all this data,
I want to remind you again that people
today are looking to get as many
streams of video and effects as they
possibly can through the pipeline.
And today, with Final Cut Pro,
for example,
we deal with a number of streams
of video of various types at a
real-time level without any additional
hardware on a dual processor G5.
So people expect that if they're
going through the creative process
that they're going to be dealing
with lots of streams of video and
they're going to be doing lots of
things and expect real-time behavior.
All of the video, of course,
I think it's worth mentioning,
kind of in contrast,
that there's also a lot of
streams of audio to be dealt with.
But it's really interesting as you
look at the upwards of 100 megabytes
per second for uncompressed HD,
you're only talking 192
kilobytes per second for audio.
But usually people are dealing with many,
many streams of audio at a time.
But there's a very large range of
expected data rates for the kind
of media that you're dealing with.
In a typical project,
and this is a project in Final Cut,
that I think it again is worth
noting that typically there's
a number of streams of video
that people are dealing with.
If you look at something
like a commercial today,
a commercial actually has lots of
streams of video going on at once.
There's usually various
motion graphics pieces.
There's multiple camera attacks
that are coming in and they're cross
fading or moving across the screen.
There's a lot of stuff people are doing.
And you may not typically think of,
in the normal process,
how many streams of media
that people are dealing with,
but it's quite a lot.
One thing that's very,
very common in the case of audio is
that people are dealing with usually
upwards of 24 tracks of audio.
Certainly when it all gets done,
it all comes down to one stream of
video and maybe a stereo pair of sound.
But when they're going
through the creative process,
there's usually lots of different
layers of the stuff that is getting
composited together at various levels.
And as they're working with it,
they expect to see it,
listen to it in real time.
So it all comes down to really the
way today's model of creating video
is it's very much a single system
workflow that people have really
optimized their process around very high
performance single system solutions.
And while they may be in an environment
with many different machines,
you know, today most of the media
tends to be moved around,
you know, via the network or, you know,
by taking that little firewire
drive and going from one system
and doing the sneaker net thing.
And the downside to that model
is that you end up getting a huge
amount of media that's duplicated
all around the enterprise.
It's not very efficiently used and
it's not very effectively used.
The upside is you've got a huge amount
of power that you get out of it.
And you can't have that single
system because you can make a lot
of assumptions about being able to
use every bit of that bandwidth.
The other downside to having
all that media duplicated around
the environment is that you,
you know, dealing with backups because
it's all distributed around your
enterprise or infrastructure
and dealing with media security,
which tends to be a really big issue is,
you know, for example,
in for the folks who are
doing maybe trailers or,
you know, trying to do, you know,
unreleased movies.
They're trying to keep.
You know, pretty tight control over
that media before it gets out,
you know, gets leaked out and put
on the on the Internet.
So doing that when all that media
is being sneaker netted around
anyway in a firewire drives makes
it even easier to have that sneaker
netted right outside the front door.
And there's certainly a number of other
challenges that a single system workflow,
you know, has.
It just really makes the processes
you're working as a group very,
very difficult.
And that's where XAN comes in.
XAN really provides an opportunity for
you to be able to do a lot of things.
XAN really provides an opportunity
for multiple clients to work together
to share data over what's the really
most important part of this thing
is a very high speed interconnect.
The difference today when you're dealing
with a network file system solution
in video is it just isn't workable.
We talked about the number of streams of
video that people expect to work with.
Over a network infrastructure,
typically you just can't
get that type of flow.
The Xsan environment really provides
an architecture and a design that makes
it possible for media-rich environments
to be able to share information because
you get pretty much the benefit of local
speed interconnect because of the fiber
and the way that the file system in Xsan
is designed relative to how something
like a network file system is designed.
Certainly,
as we talked about the negatives,
there's a lot of single
system environment.
As we move to shared storage,
there's a lot of benefit here.
Being able to get to the point where
you can actually share media assets
within an organization is a big deal.
If you're dealing in broadcast,
for example,
you may have a lot of stock material
that you deal with that gets brought
in that you really want to be
able to use over and over again.
If you have to copy literally
terabytes of data around to each
one of your workstations in order to
be able to make that stuff useful,
it makes it very ineffective and
a horrid use of your storage.
The other advantage of Xsan's
shared storage environment is the
ability to consolidate that storage.
Typically, it's a very good idea to have
a shared storage environment.
You have a lot of material that you're
sharing amongst groups of people,
not just what you're
working on right now,
but a large amount of stock material
or material that's potentially
coming in from various sources.
Again, avoiding having to have the large
capacity storage on each of those
workstations is a really big plus.
It saves a considerable amount of money.
The other big benefit is as you look at
the economics of video environment that
one of the biggest and most expensive
pieces these days is getting to be
the acquisition devices themselves,
the decks.
Particularly as you start talking
about high definition or film.
Those pieces of equipment are
somewhere on the order of 50 to
100,000 to potentially up to a
million dollars in order to be able to
acquire that media into digital form.
It's not the kind of thing you're
going to stick on every one of the
workstations within your environment.
So being able to get to the point
where you get shared storage,
you get also the benefit of being
able to reduce the number of equipment
costs that you have for acquisition.
Because you can centralize that.
Get the materials.
Reel into a place where
people can share it.
And avoid having to have lots
of redundancy as far as that
kind of equipment is concerned.
Obviously the benefits of being able to
now have that information there means
that you can actually start putting
together workflows within the workgroup.
It means you can get material that
can go from editor to editor or
to creative professional for the
different parts of the creative process.
Because they have the ability now to
be able to all get to the same media.
And then the other big benefit
is that you can get the same
information from the same media.
And that's the benefit of
having the same information.
As I talked about a little bit earlier,
the issues of single system workflows is
that the security is a real challenge.
That sneaker net approach of moving media
around is a big problem in areas that
are dealing with potentially unreleased
material movies or other things.
And being able to get to the point
where because you now have central
control of your media and being
able to start applying the kinds of
permission capabilities that a Unix
system and a shared system can have.
storage system enable means that
you also can start to control
the security of your information.
Being able to make sure that
you can say who it is that
can actually see the material,
who is it that's allowed to change it,
and basically get to the point
where you have a lot more
manageability of your assets.
And of course,
probably the most important part of
this whole thing is finally being
able to get to the point where,
because all your materials together,
that it becomes actually
feasible to back it all up.
However, with all those good things,
there's a number of things to
consider when you're dealing with
putting together a Xsan environment.
One is performance.
Remember, we talked about single system
performance or what people expect
today in the creative process.
They're getting every single
ounce of power that they
possibly can get out of that.
As soon as you try and
distribute that now,
one of the challenges is trying to
rein in and control the ability to
continue to get that kind of performance.
The other issue is
dealing with redundancy.
Shared storage is great
because you can all share it,
but you now have the opportunity
for single point of failure.
In that situation,
you need to be thinking about what do
you do to make sure that you don't put
your enterprise at risk because you
now have a single point of failure.
Those individual workstations are great.
If one went down,
you still have the other five of
them that you had up and running.
But again, this is one of these,
how do you manage the tradeoffs of
being able to get the shared storage?
Being able to get that sharing and
make sure that you don't put yourself,
enterprise at risk in the process.
Security, while it's a really important
thing to get in there,
it's a really hard problem to solve.
And we're going to talk a little bit
about what some of the issues are there.
But I want to prepare you that
getting and putting together
the security infrastructure that
you need in terms of managing
multiple users is very difficult.
There are a lot of challenges today in
terms of dealing with collaboration.
It's a real plus,
but you've got to think it through
ahead of time to understand what it is
you want to try and accomplish here.
Let's start with performance first.
The goal in a Xsan environment
really is to get back,
trying to make sure that you can get
to that single system performance.
That's what your editors
are going to expect,
that's what your creative
professionals and your enterprise
is going to expect because you want
to be able to take advantage of the
creativity that being able to do all
these things in real time enable.
The challenge is you've got to be
thinking about now that you are spreading
potentially the performance load or
the expectations with a large number
of clients within your environment.
Let's say you're putting together
a five system Xsan and you're all
going to some set of central storage.
You map that against five individual
systems that had their own local storage.
Remember,
there's one common element in that,
which is the storage,
which is now getting hit
by five times as many.
People as it would be if you had
them all completely isolated.
And so you need to make sure
you understand what each
of the clients within that
environment are actually doing.
What kind of media are
they actually working with?
And how many streams of video or
media are they typically dealing with
in the projects that they're doing?
Like I said, if you're talking about
something like commercials,
commercials tend to be a good example
where lots of streams of video.
As you see these things on TV,
it's all about transitioning
between lots of different shots.
There's a lot of motion going,
a lot of activity.
If you look at something like
more of a conventional film,
you tend not to get quite the large
number of streams that you deal
with because you're dealing with
a lot more long form material.
But you have to look at the kinds
of things that you're doing and
factor that into the process.
You need to kind of go back to that
graph that I showed earlier in the slides
and map the kinds of things that you're
doing against the size of the streams
and the number of streams to understand,
what exactly you're doing
in terms of the data flow.
One of the things that you should also
consider as you're dealing with single,
trying to get to single system
performance is that in your fiber
infrastructure for something like a Xsan,
your switch is going to be your friend.
It needs to be your friend.
It's really one of the most important
components in the infrastructure.
And the reason is,
its job is to help isolate traffic
from each of those individual systems
in the Xsan and the individual
components of your storage.
And the more parallelism and
the more isolation that you
get between those components,
the more throughput you'll end up being
able to get through the whole network.
Basically, the more things bottleneck,
the more things end up
going through one pipe,
the less total throughput
and total capability that
you get in your environment.
The ability for your switch
to isolate is really,
really important.
So as you're looking at that
part of your expenditure,
one, you'll find out, quite shockingly,
that the switch is probably going
to be one of the most expensive
pieces of equipment you buy.
It's going to be probably more
expensive than your storage.
It's going to be more expensive
than any one of your computers.
It's certainly going to be more
expensive than the software.
It is going to be something that
you should be prepared that is
going to be a very costly piece.
And you need to think ahead
about how many clients am I going
to have in the environment?
How am I going to put my storage together
and how many different strands of fiber
am I going to be running ultimately
in order to be able to get the maximum
amount of data through the system?
You've got to do the math.
Meaning,
as I talked about just a moment ago,
you've got to look back.
What are the clients in
your environment doing?
What kind of media are they working with?
And how many streams of
media are they dealing with?
You've got to count audio.
You've got to count the video.
And you've got to kind of
do all that calculation.
And unfortunately,
it's one of those things you've
got to do really up front.
Figure out,
multiply out total data flow within your
organization and figure out how much
data is going to be driven through those
strands of fiber back to the storage.
And where are the
bottlenecks going to be?
Always remember that,
and this is one of the typical
things that gets forgotten,
is that the editors are always going
to be dealing with multiple streams.
And don't assume one workstation,
one stream of data.
The reality is that they're dealing
with many streams because that's
part of the creative process.
[Transcript missing]
So, typically in video,
you're dealing with pretty large files.
You know, they're, you know,
certainly many, many megabytes,
if not gigabytes in size, you know,
typically, depending on the media
that you're dealing with.
And from a perspective of impact,
you're dealing with a reasonably
small number of files,
but a large amount of data.
So, data is kind of coming in, you know,
if you can think of a fire hose,
you know, just a huge amount of
information is coming in.
But you're not dealing with
a large number of files.
You're just dealing with
a large amount of data.
What you have to be careful of
in environments like this is that
typical computer usage workflow,
let's say email or web files or,
you know, Microsoft Word documents,
these are very small files.
And usually,
if you look on your hard drive,
there's lots of them.
And the impact between those
two different usage models
is pretty significant.
That, you know,
the SAN is actually extremely
well tuned to be able to
deal with large file access,
lots of data coming over the fiber,
but not lots of little bits
of data coming over the fiber.
That's not a very effective use
of that particular resource.
And it gets worse when you
start mixing that data.
And so when you factor in
your planning and you're
looking at your infrastructure,
you know, one of the things you might,
you know, think of doing is you
put in a SAN environment,
as, ooh, cool, I'll share everything.
Well, that may not be the wisest thing
for you to do because as you start
looking at all those little file things
that are going on with your network,
you could end up actually completely
taking all the performance out of
your infrastructure and doing that.
And if it's appropriate
for you to do that,
or let's say the small files
you're dealing with are photos,
because those are certainly
reasonably small files and you
can have certainly a lot of those,
what you may start thinking about
doing is you could have a lot of those.
And if you're dealing
with a lot of those,
what you may start thinking about
doing is you could have a lot of those.
And if you're dealing
with a lot of those,
is trying to isolate that kind of
material so that those large files
and small files are actually kept
in separate places so you can get,
again,
more parallelism through the process.
As you move on to the next step of first
understanding just basic capacities,
you want to start thinking about what
things you can do to enhance your
storage capability within the Xsan.
Certainly one opportunity is
being able to add more storage.
More storage does not
necessarily mean more disk space,
though that's certainly one of the
things you can get out of more storage.
But it's really adding more storage
in terms of getting more parallel
ways to be able to get to data.
So it's basically more heads
or more rotating platters,
if you will,
that can all be accessed in parallel.
So in the case of what I'm referring
to here in terms of adding storage,
the goal here around adding
storage is adding more parallelism,
more ways to be able to get to
that data simultaneously rather
than adding more bytes that you
can possibly put on the disk.
That happens to be.
So that's one of the things that
you can do to get more parallel.
One of the other aspects of that is
how you actually orient your storage.
One of the opportunities is looking
at spreading the load across multiple,
basically multiple rotating
surfaces by striping your data.
So this is standard RAID behavior.
But you want to think about, again,
if you take all the capacity
that you're looking for,
how can you possibly get as
much of it in parallel across
multiple devices simultaneously?
And you should look at striping the
information across these multiple devices
as one way of being able to get there.
Another way of approaching
that is actually looking
at segregating your data.
So if you have lots of different
media within your environment
that you're dealing with,
there's a couple of capabilities
that exist within XAN to really help
you there in terms of being able to
isolate that media in different ways.
One is the use of affinities.
Affinities are a technique for
being able to effectively take a
portion of the file system and tell
it to put it on specific storage.
or look at the opportunity of actually
using multiple volumes as a way,
kind of a more coarse-grained way
of being able to force material
into different storage pools.
And the kinds of things you
want to be thinking about
in terms of segregation is,
again, keeping kind of the big stuff
separate from the little stuff.
It's kind of an easy way to
look at it because if you can
take something like video,
which is, again,
usually a less number of files,
but usually a large amount of
data that gets streamed over time,
and separate that from potentially
smaller files that are going
to be accessed more frequently,
one example of that is
certainly audio and video.
They have different,
substantially different data rates,
much smaller,
much lower data rates as compared to
the much larger and much bigger files.
So, you can take a lot of
different amounts of data.
Certainly stills is another example.
If you're doing an environment
where you're creating,
you know,
video that has a lot of still material,
look at keeping the still
material separate from your video.
That can help quite a lot.
Another thing to consider is
not only the kinds of material,
but how the material is used.
So,
if you have material that is like your,
you know,
stock photos or stock video that
you want to have on hand that people
can use for creative purposes,
but they're not used very frequently.
Particularly,
you may have a huge amount of it,
and people tend to use just
little bits of it at a time.
Look at keeping your stock
material isolated away from
your current active projects.
Current active projects
tend to get a lot of change,
a lot of activity, you know,
against them, versus potentially
stock material that may,
you know,
have a much lower rate of change.
And being able to isolate that
particular and slower media,
or better yet,
away from the material that's
getting accessed at high rate,
at high rate can have a big impact.
Another thing to look at is actually
separating your projects themselves,
the actual different projects
that are going on within your
enterprise from each other.
You may have potentially five or six
major projects that go on at a time,
and one of the things you may want to
consider is organizing your storage
and organizing your infrastructure
so that each of those projects
are isolated from each other.
Not so much from a security perspective,
but again from where it sits on the
storage so you can get more parallelism.
You can keep it all on one volume
and use affinities as a way to
be able to do this kind of thing.
Basically allowing people to be
able to share material and be able
to see the material as appropriate,
but being able to use the infrastructure
of the Xsan to be able to tell
it to where to put the material
actually on your physical storage.
[Transcript missing]
I want to take a little commercial
break here and talk about redundancy.
It's one of those things you want
to think about here when you're
dealing with Xsan that you've now
gone from lots and lots of individual
seats that are fully isolated to the
ability now to share lots of material.
It also means you have an opportunity
for single points of failure.
So you should be thinking
about that from the get-go.
You probably don't want to take
the chance of taking down your
whole infrastructure because a
component fails or something happens.
And there's some ways to
protect yourselves from that.
Certainly part of RAID configuration
and doing mirroring is one of the
things that you should look at.
There's looking at failover metadata
controllers within the Xsan environment.
You can even use,
particularly in small work groups,
it might make sense to actually
use even one of the clients
as a potential failover.
In that case,
it's one of those things that
you hope will never happen.
But if it does,
at least the system will fail
gracefully and you won't take
your whole infrastructure down.
Another thing to look at is multipathing.
Multipathing is basically using those
two strands of fiber that are coming out
the back of the computer as potentially
multiple paths to be able to get to
your data in case one of them fails.
And I believe one of the other sessions
talked a little bit about how you
can use multipathing within the Xsan.
And I think that's a really good
example of how you can use multipathing
within the Xsan environment.
Certainly one of the most important
things in any situation is backup.
And so backup is something you
should factor in when you're
doing your site planning.
And the other to consider, of course,
is power protection.
This is a great place to be putting
battery backups or other things.
So again,
one of the things you want to think
about as you're going through the
process of setting up the environment,
that you consider now that you
have another opportunity for
your data to be able to be used.
single point of failure and look at all
the places that you can protect yourself.
Moving on to security and collaboration.
Dealing with multiple users in a
media environment is a real plus,
but there's some real challenges here.
It is a lot, lot,
lot harder than dealing with a
basic file system server setup.
I think from the get-go you should
understand that as you're starting
to think about how it works here,
you've got to think things
through a little bit more.
And the reason it's more difficult is
because in a typical file server setup,
you're talking about someone
being able to log in to a file
server to get to their files and
to save and retrieve their files.
As you start dealing in a
multi-user media environment,
you're actually having to think
about the collaboration aspects of
that and how you actually can share
material across multiple people.
If you're dealing with that in a
networked file system environment,
then you're... You're probably
dealing with many of the same issues,
but you typically don't tend to deal
with that in that environment as much
as you will when you're starting to
deal with a shared media environment.
Certainly, with Tiger being...
So the supporting ACLs,
access control lists,
and actually... That will
be an incredible benefit.
Unfortunately,
we don't have that right this moment.
So until then,
one of the real things that
you have to kind of factor into
the whole process is planning.
Make sure before you even... Put the
first piece of fiber to a computer that
you've thought this out because it's one
of those things that six months into it,
you're going to go, oh, my gosh.
I completely forgot or
I didn't think about this.
And what you almost are stuck
doing is tearing it all apart
and starting over again.
So it's really important to
actually take the time up front
to actually do the planning.
There's a lot of parts to deal with here
when you're dealing with shared media,
and we'll talk about what
some of those things are.
And we've talked a bit about performance.
Well, one of the big challenges is
that security and performance
don't always mix real well.
And as you'll see, we'll get into this,
they tend to collide in a couple
of important ways that you
can plan for and work around,
but that's because you do
it up front with planning.
And the other thing to think
about is when you're dealing with
multiple user projects where you're
going to be sharing material,
that again, you need to think it out a
little bit ahead of time.
So as you're planning for multiple users,
one of the things that I consider
to be an absolute must is
you need to use a centralized
directory server of some type.
I'm not going to say which
one you've got to use,
but the fact is you need to make
sure that you centrally manage
your users in this environment.
Because as you're now
dealing with ultimately Unix
permissions in this system,
files are going to have
user IDs applied to them.
And if you don't think about what
the things are that are going to be
assigned to those different files,
what user IDs and what group IDs,
then as soon as you start to
deal with sharing those files,
six months down the road
after you've finally realized,
gee, maybe I need to worry about this,
you could find yourself
in a lot of trouble.
Because that wasn't something
that you thought you could do.
And that you don't have a
centralized way of managing.
So it's really critical that
you manage the users within an
environment in some centralized way.
And you need to just get over the
fact that you are going to become
an expert at Unix permissions.
This is one of those things that,
you know, in this particular situation,
it's something you can't avoid.
It's going to be very critical in terms,
again, how you lay out your file system,
how you deal with the multiple users.
And you're going to have to
be very careful about that.
And it's going to be a little bit more
complicated than you might expect.
So you need to really understand,
you know, ahead of time how you want to,
you know, put things together.
You might want to look
at putting together,
you know,
a site plan and kind of checklist,
if you will.
And look at each of the workstations
within your environment.
And look at, for example, whether your,
you know,
how your media workstations are going
to be configured in the environment.
How your normal office workstations
are going to be configured.
So in the kind of normal
office workstation environment,
I wouldn't expect any big surprises.
This should work as it normally does
using home directories or whatever
on your network attached storage
or whatever solution you have.
Those particular things will probably
work pretty much as you're used to.
For media workstations,
on the other hand,
deciding whether or not there's going
to be a dedicated workstation per user
or whether you're going to allow them
to move around within the environment
is something you've got to think about.
Because in a media environment,
there's a lot more than just
a few preferences that go from
place to place in these setups,
particularly today.
And I certainly think over time,
this will get easier.
But at the moment, anyway,
this is a really complicated problem.
Because as you move,
if you're going to move users
from workstation to workstation,
usually the project,
its performance characteristics,
its expectations in terms
of that real-time behavior,
what kind of devices, graphics,
et cetera, you know,
can be very much tied to the workstation.
And so you're going to have to
think about what kind of workstation
that that project is being done on.
And if you move around,
you may find yourself
having to redo an awful lot.
The other thing is there's
a lot of other material that
tends to go with the projects,
scratch files and render
files and things like that.
And as you move around
from station to station,
you'll find you will end up
having to effectively recreate
that through the process.
And that can effectively slow down
the usage model that people may have.
Um...
You want to think about where the
home directory is going to be for
a given user in that environment.
Because the home directory in a media
environment is going to get hit a lot.
That's where those scratch
files tend to be put.
That's usually where a lot
of other cached information
is kept within the system.
Unless you manually go and
override and set that up for
each workstation and user,
they're going to end up having to, one,
it's going to end up putting a lot
of load back on your infrastructure.
And two, you're going to end up finding
out that your performance is just
not what you expect it to be.
Things are not working
the way you expect.
One other thing to think about, too,
at least right at the moment,
is that the home directories
tend to be... When you're dealing
with an environment where you've
set up a centralized file server
for dealing with multiple users,
the home directories are actually
connected over the network.
They're not connected over the fiber.
And this can be very confusing.
And again, I think this is one of these
things that over time will change.
But you'll get performance
characteristics of home directory
access that's network-based
as opposed to fiber-based.
Yes.
[Transcript missing]
You also want to be thinking about
how media plays into this environment.
If you have globally
shared stock material,
permissions set up in that particular
situation is reasonably straightforward.
Usually you can keep all that stuff
together and usually stock material
is something that can be shared by
all the users within an environment.
But when you get to per project media,
this is where your permissions
issues tend to get more challenging.
And you want to think about
when you're setting up projects
within your Xsan environment,
how you set up your directory tree,
how you set up the permissions
within that directory tree.
Usually when you create a new project,
for example,
you want to make sure you create a
Unix group for that project so that
you have the ability of being able to
manage which users actually have access.
to the material within that project.
And you need to do that from the get-go.
You also want to make sure that the
directory tree within the project is set
up appropriately with the permissions,
not only for whoever the owner
of that particular project is,
but that the group permissions
are correctly and properly set.
And that the media within that project,
within that directory tree,
is mapped as appropriate based
on the performance affinities
that we talked about earlier.
And this is where it gets really
complicated because you basically
have this one tree of information
that you're dealing with in terms
of how your project's organized
and a totally different structure
that represents how your media is
actually stored across your storage.
And these are multiple dimensions
that you have to factor in at once.
Because it's so complicated,
he really encouraged you to actually
draw a map of the projects and how
they're organized over your storage.
Again,
not only in terms of their organized,
how the user sees it,
but more importantly,
how they're organized in terms of
the storage so that you get the
performance expectations that you have.
When you get to this level,
this is again where it
tends to get kind of hard.
Merging the needs of sharing material
and the needs of being able to get
performance can be rather complicated.
Again, you're dealing with multiple
dimensions of hierarchy here
that need to be factored in.
And it's one of the things that
can really help you over time is
making sure that from the get-go as
you're planning that you can think
about putting together a consistent
structure for all your projects.
And I'll show you in a moment a
very simplified example of this.
But you really want to look at organizing
your projects by performance types,
by the kind of material you have,
so that you have the ability later to
go back in and apply the affinities
that you may want to apply so you
can make performance adjustments.
You may find I'm getting
more and more users,
the performance is going down,
I need to add storage.
But if you didn't organize the
material well to begin with,
you're going to find you
have to back it all off,
put it back on and restructure it.
And that will take you down
potentially for a few days.
[Transcript missing]
The advantage of that is that you'll find
again the requirements for audio and the
requirements for video in terms of speed,
in terms of the amount of data
that's moving are pretty different.
And you may be able to organize your
storage appropriately to be able to
give you much better performance.
The good news is that if you
look at organizing your projects
this way from the get-go,
you can reorganize your storage
separately from this because
the users don't need to know
how your storage is organized.
They just care that if I go down and
look in these particular folders,
I'm going to find the
stuff that I need to find.
So think about it in advance so
that it gives you the flexibility
of being able to get your storage
organized in an effective way.
I've been talking a lot about scratch
data through a number of these things.
And this is an example from Final Cut.
Final Cut allows you, for example,
to segregate a bunch of the
ancillary files that tend
to be involved in a project.
You may typically think, oh,
I'm doing a video project.
I've got certainly my
Final Cut Pro document,
and then I've got a bunch of
video and a bunch of audio.
Well, the reality is there's usually,
and this is not just for Final Cut,
but I think for many
sophisticated media applications,
a lot of other stuff that is generated
as part of the process in order to get
performance and in order to get the kind
of visual expectations that people have.
For Final Cut,
you have the ability of segregating,
for example, where you're... you know,
your audio from your video
and where it's placed.
As we talked about from, you know,
a project organization standpoint,
that can be helpful for affinities.
You can, in this case,
also manage where some
of the render files,
the files that are used to, you know,
maybe, you know, render out, you know,
complicated transitions or effects.
Those are scratch files that are not
necessarily critically important,
you know, in terms of day-to-day,
but it's important more from, you know,
getting the kind of performance.
And there's places where it
puts those things on the system.
And Final Cut allows you to kind of,
again,
even segregate where that stuff is kept.
You may want to keep that stuff locally.
You may want to put it
on a separate volume,
you know, within the SAN.
And there's other caches that,
in the case of Final Cut,
are used where various, you know,
thumbnails for pictures
and other things are used,
little things that are used just
to make the UI and other things,
you know, perform a little better.
Many times,
most of this stuff can be kind
of kept on the local system.
You, you know,
don't lose anything by losing
this material other than
kind of the UI responsiveness
typically in a given session.
It's the kind of thing you probably don't
want to put on the SAN because it just
generates a lot of unnecessary traffic.
As you're thinking about
multiple person projects,
independently of the security issues
and other things we've talked about,
you want to look at other things
to consider as well to make
it possible for collaboration.
Given that I think in the case of media,
this is a pretty new world in terms
of being able to get the kind of,
if you will, completely seamless flow of
collaboration between multiple users.
There actually needs to be a little
thought right now from the standpoint of
how you lay out your projects and work in
order to make it work more effectively.
As far as, you know, for Final Cut,
for example,
you may want to look if you've got a
really big project that you're dealing
with multiple people that you actually
find ways to break it into sub-projects.
In the film industry,
they usually do 20-minute reels,
for example.
You know, you don't do the whole,
you know, two-hour movie.
It's actually done in
20 minutes at a time,
you know, little segments.
You can actually break up your
project into this and it makes
it a lot easier to work with.
And in the case of Final Cut,
it's actually pretty easy to
create a master project that
brings all the pieces together.
You want to think about and make,
you know, watch out for that, you know,
multiple users shouldn't
be modifying the actual,
you know, same files.
From a developer perspective,
this is something that, you know,
certainly we're used to in terms of,
you know, CVS and, you know,
other kinds of tools and facilities.
There's not a lot of that kind of,
you know,
facilities right now in the media space.
There are some media management
tools that are out there,
but most tools that exist today,
you know,
don't handle concurrent modification.
So, you know, there's a lot of things
that you might expect from,
you know, source code or, you know,
software development, you know,
multiple person projects.
The multiple person project model
has been very hard to get to
without something like a SAN where,
you know, this large media actually
can be shared in a real way.
So,
this is an area where there's weakness,
you know,
in this particular area where I think
there's also a lot of opportunity.
But you want to think about, you know,
how does this work?
You know,
how to structure and organize things
to avoid these kinds of collisions.
Usually for media files,
this isn't a problem.
Something like Final Cut Pro or Logic or,
you know, the various, you know,
DAWs and other, you know,
digital audio workstations, other things.
Most of them are, you know,
non-destructive editors.
The media itself tends
to get modified rarely,
if ever.
It's usually what gets modified
is the project files and the,
you know, corresponding render files
and things that are done.
So, the good news is you probably don't
have to worry too much about people
modifying the same media files usually.
But you need to think about it.
I mentioned early on that it's really
important to consider making sure that
you use a central directory service in
terms of dealing with multiple users.
I want to reiterate that again.
It's one of those things that if
you don't think about that up front,
it will bite you.
You'll come back later and you'll go,
oops, yep, you were right.
You need to think about that.
The other is making sure that you can
do that organization up front to enable
the storage tuning later down the road.
Two really important things
that require some forethought.
[Transcript missing]